 [toc]

We’ve viewed network simply as a collection of interconnected routers which are indistinguishable from each other when learning algorithms. Here are the reason why:

- *Scale*: The overhead required to broadcast connectivity and link cost updates among all of the routers (millions) would be huge! Clearly, something must be done to reduce the complexity of route computation in a network as large as the Internet as DV algorithm that iterated among such a large number of routers would surely never converge.
- *Administrative autonomy*: Ideally, an organization should be able to operate and administer its network as it wishes, while still being able to connect its network to other outside networks.

Both of those problems can be solved by organizing router into **autonomous systems(ASs)**, with each AS consisting of a group of routers that are under the **same administrative control**. Routers and links inside a ISP consists of AS. Some ISPs partition their network into multiple ASs. The routing algorithm running within an autonomous system is called an **intra autonomous system routing protocol**.

# Open Shortest Path First (OSPF)

OSPF is a **link-state protocol** that uses flooding of link-state information and a Dijkstra’s least-cost path algorithm:

- Each router constructs a **complete topological map** (that is, a graph) of the entire autonomous system.
- Each router then locally runs Dijkstra’s shortest-path algorithm to determine a shortest-path tree to all **subnets**, with itself as the root node.
- Individual link costs are configured by the network administrator who can choose whether link costs are all 1 (achieving minimum-hop routing) or use mechanisms provided by OSPF (which do not mandate weights policies) or administrator self.



## OSPF functionality:

- **Reliable message transfer**: could be implemented.

- **Link-state broadcast**: router broadcasts routing information to all other routers in the autonomous system, not just to its neighboring routers. A router broadcasts link-state information whenever there is a change in a link’s state. It also broadcasts a link’s state periodically (at least once every 30 minutes), even if the link’s state has not changed.
- **Security**. Exchanges between OSPF routers (for example, link-state updates) can be authenticated. With **authentication** (simple or MD5*), only trusted routers can participate in the OSPF protocol within an AS, thus preventing malicious intruders (or networking students taking their newfound knowledge out for a joyride) from injecting incorrect information into  router tables
- **Multiple same-cost paths**: When multiple paths to a destination have the same cost, OSPF allows multiple paths to be used (that is, a single path need not be chosen for carrying all traffic when multiple equal-cost paths exist)
- **Integrated support for unicast and multicast routing**: Multicast OSPF (MOSPF)
  [RFC 1584] provides simple extensions to OSPF to provide for multicast routing. MOSPF uses the existing OSPF link database and adds a new type of link-state advertisement to the existing OSPF link-state broadcast mechanism.
- **Support for hierarchy within a single AS**: An OSPF autonomous system can be configured hierarchically into areas. Each area runs its own OSPF link-state routing algorithm, with each router in an area broadcasting its link state to all other routers in that area. Within each area, one or more area *border routers* are responsible for routing packets outside the are. Lastly, exactly one OSPF area in the AS is configured to be the backbone area.  (route traffic between the other areas in the AS by containing all border routers)